Copy edit 5.16 guides (#2010)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.16/guides/troubleshooting.md

---
title: "Troubleshoot"
linkTitle: "Troubleshoot"

> description: "Here’s how to troublshoot Sensu, including how to look into errors, service logging, log levels. Sensu service logs produced by sensu-backend and sensu-agent are often the best source of truth when troubleshooting issues, so start there."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Here’s how to troublshoot Sensu, including configuring service logging, setting log levels and other approaches useful for into errors and unexpected behavior. Sensu service logs produced by sensu-backend and sensu-agent are often the best source of truth when troubleshooting issues, so start there."
```

	- [Log file locations](#log-file-locations)
- [Sensu backend startup errors](#sensu-backend-startup-errors)
- [Permission issues](#permission-issues)
- [Handlers and event filters](#handlers-and-event-filters)
- [Assets](#assets)

## Service logging

Logs produced by Sensu services (sensu-backend and sensu-agent) are often the best place to start when troubleshooting a variety of issues.

### Log levels

> Each log message is associated with a log level that indicates the relative severity of the event being logged:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each log message is associated with a log level that indicates the relative severity of the event being logged.
Log levels are listed here in ascending order of verbosity, meaning that a service running at `debug` log level will print log lines for messages which are designated as belonging to info, warn, error, fatal or panic levels. 
By contrast, running a service at the `error` log level would preclude the service from printing log lines for messages categorized as warn, info or debug.
```

| Log level          | Description |
|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| panic              | Severe errors that cause the service to shut down in an unexpected state |
| fatal              | Fatal errors that cause the service to shut down (status 0)              |
| error              | Non-fatal service error messages                                         |
| warn               | Warning messages that indicate potential issues                          |
| info               | Information messages that represent service actions                      |
| debug              | Detailed service operation messages to help troubleshoot issues          |

> You can configure these log levels by specifying the desired log level as the value of `log-level` in the service configuration file (`agent.yml` or `backend.yml`) or as an argument to the `--log-level` command line flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the verbosity of Sensu service logging by specifying the desired log level as the value of `log-level` in the service configuration file (`agent.yml` or `backend.yml`) or as an argument to the `--log-level` command line flag:
```

#### Windows

The Sensu agent stores service logs to the location specified by the `log-file` configuration flag (default `%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\sensu\log\sensu-agent.log`, `C:\ProgramData\sensu\log\sensu-agent.log` on standard Windows installations).
For more information about managing the Sensu agent for Windows, see the [agent reference][1].
You can also view agent events using the Windows Event Viewer, under Windows Logs, as events with source SensuAgent.

If you're running a [binary-only distribution of the Sensu agent for Windows][2], you can follow the service log printed to standard output using this command:

{{< highlight text >}}

> Get-Content -  Path "C:\scripts\test.txt" -Wait

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get-Content -  Path "C:\ProgramData\sensu\log\sensu-agent.log" -Wait
```

## Sensu backend startup errors

> The following errors are expected when starting up a Sensu backend with the default configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following warning messages are expected when starting up a Sensu backend with the default configuration:
```

{{< /highlight >}}

> The `serving insecure client requests` error is an expected warning from etcd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `serving insecure client requests` warning is an expected warning from the embedded etcd database.
```

}
{{< /highlight >}}

If you see a message like this, review your asset definition &mdash; it means that the entity wasn't able to download the required asset due to asset filter restrictions.

> If you can't remember where you stored the information on disk, here's how to find it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can review the filters for an asset by using the sensuctl `asset info` command with a `--format` flag:
```
